PREFACE.

Anione the minor incidente which attended the uniret of learnit
Italy, few perhaps are more interesting to scholare than the unexpe
discovery at Lodi, in 1422, of a complete manuscript of the rhetu
works of Cicero, its rapid transcription by eager copyists, and its ι
countable disappearance three years later. The news of tlris diser
in the north of Italy was hailod with dclight, ewen in distant Engl
but our only record of that delight is to be found in the letteraul
distinguished florentine, Poggio Bracciolini,who was invited to Eng
after the council of Constance by Henry Beaufort, bishop of Winche
and who despondently lingered, for two years and nrore, in a
where he failed to find any of our ancient manuscripts, and where
lovers of learning, he complained, were but few in number. More
half a century had elapsed since Petrarch had lamented near the r
of his life, that the copies of the de Oratore which hc met withf
always imperfect (epritolae rouen senilium xv r); but the fortu
discoverer and frrst transcriber of the complete Quintilian could
look forward to copying the Brufur, which had hitherto been t
unknown, and the de Oratore and Orator, which had only been cur
in a fragmentary forrn. His delight at the prospect could hardly l
been shared bya statesnran so absorbed in the affairs of the reali
his host, Henry Bearrfort. It would have been more highly appreci
by one'who was Beaufort’s nephew, und, frona this year forward,
unfortunate opponenu-Hurnphreyr dulae of Gloucester, who, it wil
remembercd, was the earliest benefactor to the library of the Unive
of Oxford He is also known as the patron of that Italian sch
Lionardo Bruni, whose Latin rendering of the dc Corona of Der
thenes, aud the corresponding speech of Aeschines, may be seen iu

 

